docs: navigable, searchable, Starport-centric glossary (#1926)
tendermint/starport: docs/glossary/index.md

---
title: Glossary
order: 0
parent:
  order: 0
  title: Glossary
description: Learn more about the language of Starport.
---

Learn more about the language of blockchain, cryptocurrency, and Ignite. Terms are defined in the context of blockchain networks.

# Glossary 

<!-- add navigation A to Z -->

## A

### account

> A pair of a private key and a public key. Starport uses accounts to interact with the Starport Network blockchain, use an IBC relayer, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pair of a private key and a public key. Ignite uses accounts to interact with the Ignite chain, use an IBC relayer, and more.
```

Not sure about the *Ignite chain* wording though

### blockchain

Digitally distributed, decentralized, immutable  public ledger that exists across a network. Blockchains facilitate the process of recording transactions and tracking digital assets.

## C

### campaign

A project to start a mainnet chain network. A campaign can be a sequence of testnets that precede and result in a mainnet launch.

### chain

The project of starting a new blockchain network. When you create a chain, you create a project to start a new blockchain network.

### chain information

Data about a blockchain that validators require to perform a decentralized start of a blockchain network, including chain ID, source URL, and hash.

### coordinator 

An entity that initiates and manages chain launches and campaigns.

### Cosmos 

A network of interoperable blockchains.

### Cosmos Hub

The first of interconnected blockchains that comprise the Cosmos Network.

### Cosmos Network

A decentralized network of independent, scalable, and interoperable blockchains.

### Cosmos SDK

A modular framework that simplifies the process of building secure blockchain applications.

### CRUD

> The four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application: create, read, update and delete. Starport scaffold commands create and modify the source code files to add CRUD functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The four functions that are considered necessary to implement a persistent storage application: create, read, update and delete. Ignite scaffold commands create and modify the source code files to add CRUD functionality.
```

### cryptocurrency

### current reward height

The current block height tracked for a chain for reward distribution. This value is increased when a monitoring packet is received.

## D

### dApps

Decentralized applications (dApp) run on blockchain networks in a public, open-source, decentralized environment and are free from control and interference by any single authority. dApps are designed for specific real-world use cases and provide a user experience that is similar to web applications.

### DeFi

Digital financial infrastructure that theoretically eliminates the need for a central bank or government agency to approve financial transactions. Built on public blockchains, decentralized finance (DeFi) is the infrastructure, processes, and technologies used to democratize financial transactions.

### delegators

A safeguard against validators that exhibit bad behavior.

> ### DEX 

Reviewer: Missing definition here too.

### finality

A transaction is final after the block that contains it is validated. After finality is reached, the transaction is immutable.

### full node 

A node on the blockchain network that stores and verifies the entire state of a blockchain. 

## G

### Gaia

The name of the Cosmos SDK application for the Cosmos Hub.

### genesis block

The initial block of data in the history of a blockchain network.

## H

## I

### IBC 

A protocol that allows blockchains to talk to each other. The backbone of the Cosmos ecosystem, the Inter-Blockchain Communication protocol (IBC) handles reliable transport across different sovereign blockchains. This end-to-end, connection-oriented, stateful protocol provides reliable, ordered, and authenticated communication between heterogeneous blockchains. 

### IBC module

The standard for the interaction between two blockchains in the Cosmos SDK. The IBC module defines how packets and messages are constructed to be interpreted by the sending and the receiving blockchain.

### IBC relayer

> The IBC relayer lets you connect between sets of IBC-enabled chains. A built-in relayer in Starport connects blockchains that run on your local computer to blockchains that run on remote computers. The Starport relayer uses the TypeScript relayer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IBC relayer lets you connect between sets of IBC-enabled chains. A built-in relayer in Ignite connects blockchains that run on your local computer to blockchains that run on remote computers. The Ignite relayer uses the TypeScript relayer.
```

Not sure if the definition of the ignite relayer is still up-to-date.

### incentivized block

A block that is eligible for a reward for the validator that signs it.

## J

## K

## L

### launch information

The set of information relied on to deterministically launch the network of a chain, including the information required to generate the genesis file and the list of persistent peers for the network.

### last block height

The height of the last block that was monitored in a monitoring round.

### last reward height

The block height of the last incentivized block in a testnet for a reward pool.

### light node 

A program that processes only block headers and a small subset of transactions. 

## M

### mainnet

Short for main network, the original and functional blockchain where actual transactions take place in the distributed ledger.

### module

A subset of the state-machine. A Cosmos SDK app is usually composed of an aggregation of modules.

### monitoring packet 

> An atomic IBC packet that is sent from a testnet to SPN that contains data from the monitoring period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An atomic IBC packet that is sent from a testnet to the Ignite chain that contains data from the monitoring period.
```

### mnemonic

A sequence of words that is used as seed to derive private keys. The mnemonic is at the core of each wallet.

## N

### node

Any computer that is connected to a blockchain network is referred to as a node.

## O

### oracle

A communication module that has built-in compliance with IBC protocol to query data points of various types.

## P

### pool reward

The percentage of reward for a given reward pool that is distributed during a distribution round. The percentage depends on the current reward height and the last reward height of the reward pool.

## Q

## R

### refund per pool

The percentage of reward that is refunded to the reward provider during a distribution round. The percentage for each reward pool depends on the number of unsigned blocks.

### relaying tip

The reward offered for relaying a monitoring packet.

### relaying tip pool

A pool that contains relaying tips. The pool determines how the tips are distributed by defining the number of tips per block. Distribution instructions cannot be modified, but the tips contained in the pool can be refunded to the provider. A testnet can have any number of associated pools. 

### request 

> Solicit a change in the launch information of the chain. To be effective, a request must be approved by a coordinator. 

Reviewer: Very contextualized definition. While reading `request` I actually expected a definition of the cosmos chain  requests.

Reviewer: Like it's done for validator, the definition should be suffixed with `, Ignite chain`

Reviewer: Same for other definitions below

### request pool

The list of requests that are waiting to be approved or rejected by the chain coordinator.

### reward

> Tokens that exist on SPN are sent into an escrow for direct payment to validators to incentivize and reward them to participate in a blockchain network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens that exist on the Ignite chain are sent into an escrow for direct payment to validators to incentivize and reward them to participate in a blockchain network.
```

### reward pool 

A pool that is associated with a testnet that contains rewards to be distributed. The pool determines how to distribute the rewards. For example, how much reward per block, block range for distribution. The distribution instructions for distribution cannot be modified but the rewards contained in the pool can be refunded to the provider. A testnet can have any number of associated pools.

## S

### scaffold

> A code generation function. Starport comes with a number of scaffolding commands that are designed to make development easier by creating all of the code that's required to start working on a particular task. For example, to build a fully functional Cosmos SDK blockchain foundation, use the `starport scaffold chain` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A code generation function. Ignite comes with a number of scaffolding commands that are designed to make development easier by creating all of the code that's required to start working on a particular task. For example, to build a fully functional Cosmos SDK blockchain foundation, use the `ignite scaffold chain` command.
```
